Welcome to Sori Nori podcast. Today I’m here with Ali Rostami from Iran, whom I call music wikipedia. Hi Ali, thanks for being here today.

Hi Jinjoo, the great pianist, thank you for having me.

I want to start with a basic but important question. How do Iranian people get to know about music (for example, since when they learn and get familiar with music and how)?

First I should mention that my view is mostly from a big city like Tehran. Iran has many different cultures and cities that my view definitely is very incomplete.
Completely different from South Korea, we are not taught music in the school at all and we are introduced to music maybe by TV, family members and friends. 
For example, in my early ages, we had a neighbor who used to teach and play music with the traditional music instruments. It was my first time to see the instruments and I loved it. So, in my mind, it is very irregular how people are introduced to music and even which kinds of music. So, if you have a family member who plays classical music on piano, you might get interested more in classical music first. But in general, as the traditional music is played by many people commonly, most people are introduced to traditional music in the early ages. Also, in some cultures in Iran, music is even a routine for the children. I can name for example kurdish people and their music.
But again, really going and learning it, it is mostly dependent on your family and parents. I should say that it is more common nowadays that parents register their children to music courses, particularly middle classes in big cities. 

That’s interesting, then it makes me wonder what kind of music is popular in Iran?

In Iran, classic music is not that much popular and only some people know about it although the famous music pieces are sometimes played on our TV. So people have heard some classic music without really knowing about it. 
In Iran, the iranian traditional music is common and is taught traditionally from parents or family members to children at least in the early ages. There are many music institutes for traditional, pop, or classical music in Iran but it is completely dependent on your parents if they allow you to go or even give you enough money to do it.
I should mention that pop music is much popular nowadays, maybe like other countries although you can see a lot of new music which is a fusion between traditional and pop music. 

Thank you, I think it’s great that you learn traditional music from your family and get familiar with it. That way you can keep your tradition passing from generation to generation. In Korea, we need to make some extra effort if we want to learn traditional music and instruments.
Now I want to move on your view towards music.
How do you think knowing music/playing music influences human beings and their life? And how has it influenced you and your life?

In my mind, talking and language is not enough for us to express ourselves. We have heard all the time from different people “I can not put my thoughts/emotions in words”. I think even the people that try their whole life to express themselves like authors or movie makers, have some parts of their brian untouched by the words and expressions until the end. For me, the music (in general art) is an access to that part of the personality and brain of a person. 
So, based on this view, I would say I can express myself in music as a person that might have large untouched thoughts. Music gave me the hope for the communication of my thoughts that can not be perceived easily even by myself. 

I totally agree with you. Through music, our life can have more colors in it. 
And then next question is,
As I heard that you used to teach the history of classical music in your university, 
What was the motive that made you start teaching it?

More than teaching, it was just a series of meetings organized by my friend Azin and I introducing the classical music concepts. Just as an example, we listened to some symphonies of Beethoven and tried to recognize the sonata form of the first movement. So, I stopped and replayed regularly so that my audience realized the different parts of the sonata. So, my motivation was mostly to share my music passion with some other people. Although in general I always liked to be a teacher. 
Then a question comes to my mind,
Through the teaching, if you learned and achieved something, what would it be?
Actually in my mind, you get deeper in a concept first when you start to share it or let’s say teach it to someone else. So, through the questions in these meetings I started to learn more and more about the music itself and also the different feelings raising in people. Another achievement for me is that some friends wrote to me in the following years that they continued listening to classical music and even started to learn an instrument. 

Cool, that’s such a big achievement. I will also register for your course if you have it again.
Then, the next question is, I know you are a big fan of music from the Baroque period, especially Bach music. What makes Baroque music and Bach so special to you?

As you can imagine it is hard to express a feeling and why it is so. But if I want to mention some adjectives I would say the Baroque music has some kinds of purity and it is much near to the human essence. I should also mention its variety. There are different kinds of Baroque music considering the early ages of Baroque to the final years. For example, Monteverdi and one of my favorite opera pieces from him (L’Orfeo) can be considered a music piece from an era between renaissance and Baroque which has even a unique style of singing. Or, Vivaldi and his four seasons are very unique in its way and brings you in touch with nature. Another reason could be that I like Fugue and Canon very much. A short explanation of fugue and canon is to have two or more music themes are played together and tangled through each other. Bach is maybe the best composer of Fugue in my mind. And not to forget, music like Brandenburg concertos that are like music waterfalls flowing all over you. But I like to finish my answer by mentioning my favorite music pieces from Bach are violin sonatas and partitas. For me, whenever I listen to these pieces I find out new feelings in myself. 

You are right, no one can deny the beauty of Bach music. I am also becoming more interested in Bach music, because of you as I said in the previous episode. Then my next questions is,As a person who likes your violin playing, I want to ask how you picked a violin to learn among different instruments and how was your experience of learning violin?

Compared to piano and guitar that the music is produced by plucking, I like the continuity in violin music. I remember violin pieces on the radio or tv always caught my attention. Also, at that time, my first attachment to violin started with pop violin pieces composed by iranian musicians like Bijan Mortazavi and Shadmehr. But through the time, I got more interested in classical music. I started to listen to music from Vivaldi, Bach, Paganini and so on that all have great violin pieces. Discovering so many different music styles which all are played with this same music instrument got me very excited. Just compare bright and pure music of Vivaldi to dark and emotional music of Paganini. 
I also started to know and listen to many great violin players like Oistrach, Yehudi Menuhin, Hillary Hahn and Anne-Sophie Mutter and see how different players can bring different colors to a music.
I could not start to learn the violin until I was 17 since my father insisted that music does not allow me to study well. I could start at 17 only because my uncle bought me a violin and assured my father to put me in a violin course. You know, 17 is very late to start learning violin. So, I could not really get very good at the violin. Particularly, when I came to Germany for my study, I was very busy in the first years and could not practice violin for many years. So, as a summary, I think learning violin is really something that you should start earlier. Anyway, although I can not play it well, I always feel good when I play something for myself and close friends.  

Great, I also like the continuity in string instruments as you said.
As a last question, I want to ask you about your dreams and goals in music. 

Regarding playing the music, I always had a dream to play all Bach Sonatas and Partitas and at least some selected ones. 
I also like to study and understand music from different cultures and also how music in general has this great effect on us. 

Cool dreams, I’m already excited to see your dreams come true. 
So, thank you Ali for your time and great interview. I also want to use this opportunity to say thanks to our listeners. We will be back soon with another interesting musical interview.

