Hi Jinjoo, thank you for being with us in this podcast. 

Hi Ali, thanks for having me today.

We have known each other for quite a while now. Getting to know you brought me in touch with the korean culture and music. 
The first thing I like to know is how the children or specifically you are introduced to music in South Korea. 

We have been constantly exposed to music since birth, because parents sing some kid songs to their kids and also in the kindergarten we learn some songs. but we start learning music properly from around the age of entering school.

I was first introduced to music by going to afterschool music class. To answer this question I think I have to briefly introduce so to speak afterschool class-culture in South Korea.
In South Korea, there are many kinds of afterschool classes like music class, english class, drawing class, taekwondo, to name a few. even in a small village or town, you will find them easily. not only these days but also in my childhood time, going to this afterschool music class was one of typical daily routines of students, especially for girls. and I think many of Korean children are introduced to Music in this way, like I was. Even if you don’t go to this music class, you still have chances to learn music. Korean schools have Music class in their curriculum once or twice a week, where students can learn basic music theories and sing together, and sometimes learn how to play some instruments for example, at my time we learned how to play recorder, and ocarina and so on. and if you really want to do something with music in the school, you can join a school choir group  or school orchestra/band, since most schools in Korea have such groups and also support their activities very well. This is how most of korean children take their first step into music.

Very interesting and different from my country. It brings me actually to the next question. 
What was the first time you got to know that you are very interested in music?

First time I got interested in Music

For the first 6 years since I started learning Piano, I wasn’t really into music. but then after 6 years, when I was about 12 years old, I happened to start playing piano in my church, because my piano teacher, who was the pianist in our church, was getting busier, so she wanted me to replace her. I think I was in a lucky situation because our church was really small, so she couldn’t find anyone to replace her other than 11 year old me. Playing in church was a total new experience to me, because before that I used to play just by myself but when playing in the church, it was like I’m playing the piano and people are singing with my accompaniment, or like playing in a band with other players like drummer, guitarist and so on. That was the first time that I realized what it feels like when interacting with other people through music, and it was an extremely thrilling experience to me. Since that time, I gradually became interested in music.  

First time I got enthusiastic in music

And then there comes a moment that I became very enthusiastic about music. I think everyone has this experience, like when you concentrate on something very deeply or obsessed with something, and when you finish doing it, you realize that several hours have passed in a blink of an eye. I also experienced this one day while I was practicing piano, and then I realized that I was really enjoying this and loving this. That is how I became a music lover. 

You said you play in church.
Can we say that the christianity and church have a big role in why so many Korean people are good at classical music? 

I would say yes. Of course there are also many other factors and reasons of many Korean people being good at music, not limited to classical music but also contemporary music, but being in christianity definitely gives you a lot of opportunities to be part of some musical activities. I think it’s quite a natural thing, because religion, especially christianity involves lots of music in the worship service, which means someone needs to play some instruments, someone needs to sing either as a soloist or in a choir. so I heard that a large portion of the people who major in music in univ. or work as professional musicians found and developed their musical skills and talents through church in their childhood. I think this can be understood in the same context with the fact that if we look into the history of music, church can not be separated from the history of music and also we can see that many of great classical musicians, like Bach, Hendel were closely connected to church and church music. In that sense, I believe christianity plays a big role in music education and music market in Korea


I know that you like Lang Lang very much. Can I ask why? Can you name a few more of such musicians that you like the most? 

Not to mention his great techniques, I like his face and his motion when he plays. He looks like really feeling freedom/happiness during his playing. and he plays the piano like a kid playing around with a toy, no matter how difficult the music is, he just nails it and enjoys it. In a word, the main reason why I like him so much is because he transfers his joy/freedom to the listener/audience. Actually there are some people who don’t like his playing, because it can sometimes go too far away from the standard way of playing, but to me it’s also one of his strengths, because it can mean he has a special interpretation towards music and that can make him special and distinct from other players 
Other than lang lang, I also like a Korean violinist that I got to know recently. what’s interesting is that her name is also Jinjoo, the full name is Jinjoo Cho. The reason why I like her is, from her interviews I somehow felt that she has a very solid mentality/ego, and then when I listened to her playing, I could feel it again from her music. I think having a strong mentality is a big advantage for musicians.
Composer: Chopin is my favourite composer, and Bach is coming into my interest more and more, because of you :p.

Thank you and yes, Bach is my favorite composer. Let’s get to K-pop, another much related topic to korea.
Whenever you hear about Korean and music, the word K-pop just pops up in my brain. 
As you know, K-pop is getting popular around the world. I like to know if you have a feeling why it is so. Or maybe you can tell us your opinion on K-pop? 

There should be many different reasons I don’t know yet, but from my point of view, the main points of K-pop is the performance and addictive music.

First speaking about the performance, there’s a term in Korean called ‘칼군무/kalgunmu/’ which means a group dance that is perfectly synchronized. Almost all K-pop groups do this perfect-synced dance. Also their dance styles are very powerful. I often get goose bumps when I see them dancing. I heard that they actually spend lots of time and effort for this performance during their training period and even after.

and about the melody, they use hook melody in their songs, which makes the song addictive and never goes out of your head. This is a good strategy for high ranking in music charts.

Another thing I can also think of is lyrics. I heard many K-pop fans love the lyrics in K-pop. because, not in every K-pop, but quite often they talk about ‘loving yourself’ or something like ‘you are the best’, and i think it gives some consolation and encouragement to the people living in this stressful world which sometimes makes it hard to love yourself.


For the last question, I really like to know what kind of music do you want to play and what you are pursuing in your musical future:

I want to play music that can soothe and soften people’s minds, and give them peace so that we can all survive through this crazy world together. If I get a chance, I would like to study music therapy in the future, because I believe music definitely has the power to heal. My other dream is to have a musical family in the future, I sometimes imagine a family playing ensemble together. It will be really awesome.

Great goals and I wish your dreams come true and I come to your family’s concert. Thank you again for your time and we will have definitely more interviews in the future. 

